# Minutes of the 6th meeting of Ecma TC55

|                   |                              |
|:------------------|-----------------------------:|
| held in:          |        Google Meet (virtual) |
| on:               |                  01 May 2025 |
| Chairs:           |  Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)|
| Attendees:        | Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia), Ethan Arrowood (HarperDB, Invited Expert), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Sam Gammon (Elide Technologies, Invited Expert), Chris de Almeida (Open JSF), Lino Le Van (Chic, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International)|
| Secretary:        |  Aki Braun (Ecma International)|

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of03 April 2025

The minutes were not yet published, but notes from the meeting had been made into GitHub issues reviewed by the attendees of the meeting.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on ***the meeting’s associated GitHub issue***, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

* Introductions for the benefit of new participants
* The future of Runtime Keys (5 min)
* Continue WPT review: (30 min)
  * DOMException
  * Event
  * EventTarget
  * Fetch-related APIs (Header, Request, Response)
  * WASM
  * globalThis: navigator, performance.now queueMicrotask, setInterval/setTimeout, structuredClone, atob/btoa
* Continue going through the fetch spec (starting with [fetch response handover](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#fetch-finale) algorithm, step 4) (30 mins)

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 Future of Runtime Keys

**Ethan Arrowood** [brought a discussion](https://github.com/wintercg/runtime-keys/issues/23) of what to do next with the [Runtime Keys repository](https://github.com/wintercg/runtime-keys), now that TC55 has made the decision not to pursue publication of a registry within Ecma. The Package Metadata Interoperability group within the Open JS Foundation wants to collaborate with TC55 to shepherd this project to its next home, as all participants find its existence valuable. In the past, **James Snell** has suggested [IANA](https://www.iana.org/) as the right place for such a registry—**Ethan** will research what that process would involve. A note that **Jordan Harband** [disagrees](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/package-metadata-interoperability-collab-space/issues/35#issuecomment-2718652038) that a Runtime Keys registry is out of scope for TC55, but does support its move to IANA.

### 4.2 Web Platform Tests review

**Luca Casonato** returned to the [WPT Analysis GitHub issue](https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/86#issuecomment-2845038320) to discuss each set of tests’ appropriateness for the Minimum Common API. See that link for a specific test names to be included or excluded relating to discussion below.

#### 4.2.1 Structured Clone

The Structured Clone test harness sometimes uses DOM APIs that are not part of the Minimum Common API to test various interactions. There is a [ShadowRealm-related WPT Pull Request](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/49282) by Philip Chimento that **Andreu Botella** had reviewed but hasn't landed yet, which might make the entire harness be able to be fully run by WinterTC runtimes. More analysis is needed.

#### 4.2.2 DOMException

All DOMException tests appear compatible with the Minimum Common API

#### 4.2.3 Event & EventTarget

Events necessarily involve [bubbling](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/Scripting/Event_bubbling), which is fully reliant on the DOM. The majority of these tests will not run or pass in a server-side runtime. The committee will return to this topic in the future, with Events (and EventTargets) as their own timeboxed agenda item.

There was some discussion about writing a simplified version of the spec that removes bubbling, or documenting which parts are not relevant without bubbling, since they're mixed together with regular event dispatch machinery and it's not easy to tell them apart.

#### 4.2.4 WASM

All tests for WASM other than module serialization tests are appropriate for a server-side runtime and shall be included in MCApi compliance

#### 4.2.5 Navigator

This is a fully HTML system. **Andreu Botella** observes that there is one useragent-related test that would be appropriate to include for Fetch implementation. The chairs are ambivalent to its inclusion and will return to make a decision at a future time.

#### 4.2.6 Performance.now

Tests within the WPT that act on performance.now are found under hr-time, specifically the idlharness, basic, and monotonic clock test.

#### 4.2.7 microtasks

At this time, Node cannot run these tests. Andreu Botella believes there’s currently a patch in progress, and queueMicrotask & queueMicrotask exceptions will be included.

#### 4.2.8 setInterval / setTimeout

These timers from html webapps should generally run in any environment, their tests will be included with the exception of tests relating to cross-realm behaviours.
#### 4.2.9 atob / btoa

These are straightforward functions that are expected to run across runtimes, the tests will be included.

### 4.3 Fetch tests

There’s no current suite of tests for Fetch that can be used for both server-side runtimes and browsers not due to what they are testing, but rather how they are testing it. Some tests will need to be rewritten for greater flexibility.

**Ethan Arrowood** suggested referencing [undici](https://github.com/nodejs/undici), which is an HTTP client written for Node.js that also builds on top of WPT for its testing. It has useful test fixtures and [expectations](https://github.com/nodejs/undici/blob/main/test/wpt/status/fetch.status.json) that may be adaptable for testing minimum common API compliance for Fetch.

**Andreu Botella** brings up a concern that running some of these tests may not be compatible with implementations of workers in all runtimes, and suggests a future discussion of scope regarding testing classic workers vs module workers. **Luca Casonato** agrees about potential scope creep, and suggests returning to this conversation in a future attempt to publish “levels” of compliance.

### 4.4 Fetch spec

The committee continued its line-by-line [review of the Fetch specification](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2845136268)

#### 4.4.1 fetch response handover

Runtimes will treat all requests as same-origin, generally skipping any filtering or similar behaviours. (This was discussed last meeting as well)

#### 4.4.2 scheme fetch

* about:// schemes are handled during navigation, and should never make it to fetch. This would result in an error.
* blob:// requests will behave as initially described in the spec, but origin checking will be skipped.
* file:// requests will be specified after a filesystem level has been described for the minimum common API.

#### 4.4.3 http fetch

Various steps in this section are related to service workers or origin-relevant details (especially CORS). The steps most relevant to service workers will be discussed at a later date, when **James Snell** is able to attend the meeting. Generally origin-related steps are to be skipped, with the exception of subtle details in step 6, see the relevant comment on [the tracking issue](https://github.com/wintercg/fetch-workstream/issues/1#issuecomment-2845136268) for more information.

#### 4.4.4 http redirect fetch

Like much of the fetch specification, generally origin-related details can be skipped. However, step 13 is relevant to server-side runtimes to prevent passing authorization data to a different origin. Both Node.js and Deno have had CVEs opened in the past relating to this process.

## 5 Any other business

None.

## 6 Next meetings

The next meetings will take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled is on 15 May 2025

### 6.1 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/wintercg/admin), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
