# Minutes of the 4th meeting of Ecma TC55

held in: Google Meet (virtual)  
on:  20 March 2025

**Chairs:**  Luca Casonato (Deno), Andreu Botella (Igalia)  
**Attendees:** Luca Casonato (Deno), Dean Srebnik (Andromeda, Invited Expert), Owen Buckley (Project Evergreen, Invited Expert), Thomas Ballinger (Convex, Invited Expert), Aki Braun (Ecma International)  
**Secretary:**  Aki Braun (Ecma International)

## 1 Welcome, opening and meeting logistics

**Luca Casonato**, chair of TC55, began the teleconference and welcomed attendees. All attendees were informed that the meeting was recorded and transcribed by Google Gemini for the purpose of note-taking.

## 2 Approval of the minutes of the virtual meeting of 06 March 2025

The [pull request of notes](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/pull/107) was approved to be merged.

## 3 Review of the agenda

The agenda was created from the comments on **[the meeting’s associated GitHub issue](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/108)**, as is the standard practice for TC55. It was proposed and approved at the start of the meeting.

- MessageChannel and MessagePort in Minimum Common API ([MessageChannel and MessagePort proposal-minimum-common-api\#85](https://github.com/wintercg/proposal-minimum-common-api/issues/85))
- Start looking through the WPT tests for the Minimum Common API
- Continue going through the fetch spec

## 4 Discussions

### 4.1 MessageChannel and MessagePort

`MessageChannel` and `MessagePort` are now available in two runtimes, making them eligible for merge into the Minimum Common API specification. Consensus was reached to merge the code, but the issue will remain open for two more weeks to encourage comment.

### 4.2 Web Platform tests

The committee plans to use a subset of the [Web Platform Tests](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt) as an indicator of compliance with Minimum Common API requirements. **Luca Casonato** has reviewed tests relevant to approximately 60% of Minimum Common API. This review specifically *excludes* the following:

- `DOMException`
- `Event`
- `EventTarget`
- `Fetch`-related APIs (`Header`, `Request`, `Response`)
- WASM
- `globalThis`: `navigator`, `performance.now` `queueMicrotasks`, `setInterval`/`setTimeout`, and structured cloning, `atob`/`btoa`

#### 4.2.1 Web Platform Tests reviewed

- `AbortSignal` is a compute-only API, one test invokes the DOM
- Likewise for web crypto
- The console spec is sparse and may be worth a more detailed description—should console.log be permitted to cause side effects? Does console.log invoke the getter on an object?
- Streams tests are pretty exhaustive, only one would be excluded (crossrealm crash test uses iframe). Tests transferring streams may require further investigation, as they require workers (which Cloudflare, for one, neither supports nor plans to support)
- URL should be testable, but some of the current tests utilize the href attribute on anchor tags—those should be split out.
- Some urlpattern tests execute on details that aren’t specified, they should be excluded
- FileAPI tests require FileReader as they are written now, which is not part of MCA so they’ll need to be rewritten
  - They do test blob and formdata though, which *is* meaningful to MCA
  - ESM import spec leaves too much up to runtime to lean on that
- Moving forward, the committee will seek to expand its understanding by having multiple runtimes report which they run, and attempt to build a “complete” set from that information.

### 4.3 Fetch spec

Finishing fetch spec postponed until a delegate from Cloudflare is able to attend, suggested by Luca and agreed by Dean and Owen.

## 5 Any other business

None.

## 6 Next meetings

TC55 meetings typically take place as Google Meet video calls fortnightly. The next scheduled meeting is on 03 April at 16:30 CET.

### 6.1. Conflict with TC39

TC55’s 17 April meeting will be in direct conflict with the next TC39 plenary. Due to the overlap in attendees, [the committee will discuss](https://github.com/wintercg/admin/issues/109) how they plan to manage meeting scheduling or attendance for that occurrence.

### 6.2 Past and Future Agendas

Agendas are built via GitHub issues in the [WinterTC admin repo](https://github.com/wintercg/admin), and remain available in perpetuity.

## 7 Conclusion

The Chairs wrapped up the meeting and the call concluded.
