## Meeting 2022-05-26

### Attendees

- Luca Casonato
- Bret Little
- Chengzhong Wu
- Colin Ihrig
- Dylan Thacker-Smith
- Filip Skokan
- James M Snell
- Steve Faulkner

### Action Items

1. Specify `globalThis` extending `EventTarget` in a seperate document. James
   will look into it.
1. Chairs to set up a workstream for environment metadata. Bret will champion.
1. Chairs to set up a meeting for the fetch workstream with the relevant
   parties.
1. Chairs to set up a workstream for performance measurements. Chengzhong will
   champion.

## Notes

1. Introductions
1. Updates from workstreams
   - Minimum Common API:
     - Should `globalThis` extend `EventTarget`?
       - It does in Deno and CFW.
       - James says it is questionable whether this would be implemented in
         Node.
       - Could this be added as a normative optional feature?
         - Filip argues that the common minimum API should probably not have
           optional features, because it wouldn't be common minimal then.
       - **ACTION ITEM**: Specify this in a seperate document. James will look
         into it.
     - Should user agent be a standard format?
       - OpenTelemetry uses the user agent as an opaque string now, but would
         like more structured info.
       - Probably not a standard format, as we don't want to encourage parsing.
       - We should likely use "user agent data" system that Chromium has
         implemented. This is more structured info than parsing a user agent
         string.
       - User agent data can also contain "stacked" vendor lists, like
         `["Chromium", "Chrome"]` which may translate over to server side
         runtimes well.
     - Injection of environment variables / environment metadata:
       - It would be nice to have a consistent way to read environment metadata
         from the runtime.
       - In Deno and Node this is achieved using environment variables.
       - In CFW "secrets" and environment variables are bundled together with KV
         and durable object bindings in a single context object.
       - Luca proposes this could be a string -> string map on `navigator`
         (`navigator.env` for example).
       - **ACTION ITEM**: Chairs to set up a workstream
       - Bret to champion this workstream.
   - WebCrypto Streams:
     - Reached out to Mozilla. They consider the proposal non harmful, but have
       some concerns about specific algorithms in `EncryptionStream`.
   - Fetch:
     - No progress.
     - **ACTION ITEM**: Chairs to set up a meeting with relevant parties.
1. Is Node going to join the group?
   - No progress on this.
   - **ACTION ITEM**: James will push this forward.
1. `Performance` global
   - Are runtimes implementing this, and what are concerns that need to be
     addressed?
   - Garbage collection of marks and measures is an issue. Would it help to have
     a global limit that the runtime enforces?
   - **ACTION ITEM**: Chairs to set up a workstream
   - Chengzhong to champion this workstream.
